
Basics: 

Black rot is an important disease of apple caused by the fungus Botryosphaeria obtusa. Black rot fungus infects a wide variety of hardwood trees, including apple and pear. Infected trees are often a source of infection for nearby younger bearing blocks.

Symptoms: 

The black rot pathogen infects limbs, trunks, leaves and fruit resulting in reduced productivity and quality of yield. 
Leaf infections result in a disease called frog-eye leaf spot. On leaves, the disease first appears as a tiny purple fleck which eventually enlarges into a circular lesion about 4-5 mm in diameter. 

Cycle and Lethality: Severely infected leaves eventually turn yellow and drop, resulting in premature senescence of affected trees and predisposing them to winter injury. Defoliation year after year stresses trees and greatly reduces vigour. Damage to limbs caused by cankers from other disease - or wounds caused by insects, pruning and hail or winter injury - provide an entrance for the fungus to invade and become established. Fire blight cankers are often colonized by black rot fungus. Limb cankers first appear as reddish or pinkish, brown sunken areas in the bark (Figure 4-146). Cankers often remain small and superficial but sometimes enlarge up to 50 cm in length along the infected limb, killing and cracking the bark

Organic Solutions:  Pruning out diseased limbs and dead wood is an important practice to reduce the inoculum sources within the orchard. It is important to remove prunings from the orchard or burn them since black rot fungus can survive on dead tissue. Alternatively, chopping up the prunings on the orchard floor with a flail mower reduces inoculum levels. Woodpiles must not be stacked in or near orchards since they can be a major source of inoculum. Make an attempt to scout surrounding woodlots and identify hardwood trees infected with the disease. If possible, remove and burn these trees to decrease potential disease pressure. It is important to obtain a neighbour's permission to cut down infected trees identified on an adjacent property.


Inorganic Solutions: Captan and sulfur products are labeled for control of both scab and black rot. A scab spray program including these chemicals may help prevent the frog-eye leaf spot of black rot, as well as the infection of fruit.

Src: http://omafra.gov.on.ca/english/crops/facts/blackrot.htm#:~:text=Black%20rot%20is%20an%20important,for%20nearby%20younger%20bearing%20blocks.