
Basics: Bacterial leaf spot, caused by Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria, is the most common and destructive disease for peppers in the eastern United States.Bacterial leaf spot can devastate a pepper crop by early defoliation of infected leaves and disfiguring fruit. In severe cases, plants may die as it is extremely difficult to find a cure once the disease takes hold. However, there are several options for growers to prevent it from occurring and spreading.

Symptoms:On some cultivars, leaves may display several small lesions – 1/4 to 1/2 centimeter – covering over 80% of the leaf’s area, whereas on others, fewer large lesions – larger than 1/2 centimeter – may be visible.Disease symptoms can appear throughout the above-ground portion of the plant, which may include leaf spot, fruit spot and stem canker. However, early symptoms show up as water-soaked lesions on leaves that can quickly change from green to dark brown and enlarge into spots that are up to 1/4 inch in diameter with slightly raised margins. 

Cycle and Lethality:
The pathogen survives in and on seeds and in plant debris (McGrath & Boucher, 2012). Although persistence of debris and the pathogen depend on environmental conditions, it is very common for the pathogen to survive in debris for at least a year. However, once infected debris gets decomposed and the organism is exposed to soil, it cannot stay alive for more than a few weeks.Disease development is favored by relative humidity above 85%, extended periods of leaf wetness and heat waves, especially when night temperatures remain above 70°F. Short periods (three days or more) below 40% relative humidity will reduce disease severity and delay development.

Organic Solutions: Beneficial microorganisms containing products, such as Serenade and Sonata, can reduce pepper leaf spot if used proactively. However, once the disease has spread to more than 5% of plants, these products can’t suppress the disease.

Inorganic Solutions: Transplants with symptoms may be removed and destroyed or treated with streptomycin, if detected at the very early stage of disease development. It should be noted that strains of leaf spot bacteria resistant to streptomycin may arise with multiple applications of streptomycin.Bacterial Spot is very difficult and expensive to treat. If the disease occurs early in the season, consider destroying the entire crop. Copper-containing bactericides provide a protective cover on foliage and fruit. Bacterial viruses (bacteriophages) that specifically kill the bacteria are available.


Src:https://extension.wvu.edu/lawn-gardening-pests/plant-disease/fruit-vegetable-diseases/bacterial-leaf-spot-of-pepper#:~:text=Bacterial%20leaf%20spot%2C%20caused%20by,2005). 