

Basics: Cedar-apple rust and related rust fungi need plants from two plant families to complete their life cycle; Cupressaceae family (eastern red cedar and other junipers) and Rosaceae (apple, hawthorn, serviceberry). Bright orange to red leaf spots occur on apples, hawthorns, and other plants in the Rosaceae family. These fungi rarely cause serious damage to their hosts and do not require management in most cases.

This disease can cause damage to leaves and fruit of very susceptible apple varieties, but is only a minor problem on resistant or partially resistant trees.


Symptoms: 
Leaf spots are first yellow then turn bright orange-red, often with a bright red border.
Small, raised, black dots form in the center of leaf spots on the upper leaf surface when the leaf spots mature.
Very short (less than 1/10th inch), finger-like fungal tubes stick out from the lower surface of the leaf, directly below leaf spots.
Small finger-like fungal tubes from cedar apple rust sticking out from the lower surface of the leaf.
Cedar apple rust projections.
The fungal tubes appear fringed when they open at the tip to release yellow to orange, powdery spores.
Rarely, green to brown irregular spots with black dots form on the fruit surface. Fruit spots do not extend deep into the fruit.


Cycle and Lethality:  cedar-apple rust is not known to be extremely harmful. However, some ornamental cedar plants are covered with fungal galls and become unattractive. Under some backyard conditions where both hosts (cedar and apple) are located close together, both trees have been killed by this disease.

Organic Solutions: 
Tolerate leaf spots and fruit infection on apples, hawthorns, serviceberry and other plants in the Rosaceae family. They do not significantly affect the health of the tree if leaf loss does not occur.
Do not plant eastern red cedar and juniper plants within a few hundred yards of susceptible Rosaceae plants. This will reduce diseases problems but not completely eliminate them.
Inspect nearby juniper and red cedar trees in late winter or early spring. Prune and remove brown, woody galls found before orange, gelatinous structures form in the spring. This will help reduce the level of infection on nearby Rosaceae plants.
Prune and remove infected twigs or branches on Rosaceae plants if they occur.



Inorganic Solutions: Fungicides are not recommended to protect trees from infection with cedar apple rust and related rust fungi. Trees and shrubs often tolerate infection.
There are no fungicides available to home gardeners that can be used on trees where the fruit will be eaten by people. 
Fungicides are available to protect trees and shrubs that are for ornamental purposes only. 
Fungicides with the active ingredient Myclobutanil are most effective in preventing rust. Copper and sulfur products can be used as well.


Src: https://extension.umn.edu/plant-diseases/cedar-apple-rust#managing-rust-on-apples%2C-hawthorns%2C-and-other-plants-in-the-rosaceae-family-1172760