

Basics: Powdery mildew of sweet and sour cherry is caused by Podosphaera clandestina, an obligate biotrophic fungus. Mid- and late-season sweet cherry (Prunus avium) cultivars are commonly affected, rendering them unmarketable due to the covering of white fungal growth on the cherry surface. Season long disease control of both leaves and fruit is critical to minimize overall disease pressure in the orchard and consequently to protect developing fruit from accumulating spores on their surfaces.


Symptoms: Initial symptoms, often occurring 7 to 10 days after the onset of the first irrigation, are light roughly-circular, powdery looking patches on young, susceptible leaves (newly unfolded, and light green expanding leaves). Older leaves develop an age-related (ontogenic) resistance to powdery mildew and are naturally more resistant to infection than younger leaves. Look for early leaf infections on root suckers, the interior of the canopy or the crotch of the tree where humidity is high. In contrast to other fungi, powdery mildews do not need free water to germinate but germination and fungal growth are favored by high humidity. The disease is more likely to initiate on the undersides (abaxial) of leaves but will occur on both sides at later stages.


Cycle and Lethality: The fungus overwinters in buds on twigs and as chasmothecia, which are spore-containing structures, on the bark of twigs and branches. Secondary spores produced in spring spread the fungus to new growth. Infections can be severe in commercial orchards during years of low rainfall, high humidity, and warm temperatures (70° to 80°F). The disease is particularly severe on new growth, such as shoots of inner scaffolds, and can infect fruit as well, causing direct crop loss. In warm, humid, coastal areas, powdery mildew can also be severe after harvest.

Organic Solutions: 
Manage irrigation. In the arid west in a typical dry spring, early irrigation may stimulate early cherry powdery mildew infections. Recent research has shown that a two-week delay in irrigation delayed disease initiation two weeks with no negative impact on fruit.
Pruning. Humid conditions favor cherry powdery mildew. A well pruned canopy will promote more air flow and leaf drying, reducing these humid conditions favorable for disease. Pruning will also help to achieve good spray coverage.
Root sucker management. Root suckers are preferred by powdery mildews since they are highly susceptible leaf tissue. Root suckers are close to the irrigation and high humidity levels favor the onset and spread of infections. Additionally, sprays aimed at the canopy often do not protect root suckers allowing fungal inocula to survive all season. Remove root suckers to eliminate this source for infection of the canopy and fruit.



Inorganic Solutions: The key to managing powdery mildew on the fruit is to keep the disease off of the leaves. Most synthetic fungicides are preventative, not eradicative, so be pro-active about disease prevention. Maintain a consistent program from shuck fall through harvest. Consider post-harvest preventative measures (e.g. application of sulfur, prevent trees from pushing for leaf growth) to obstruct the fungus from overwintering. Preharvest fungicide applications should be based on the residual period of the product. Rotate between modes of action (MOA) in order to avoid resistance.


Src: http://treefruit.wsu.edu/crop-protection/disease-management/cherry-powdery-mildew/#:~:text=Powdery%20mildew%20of%20sweet%20and,1).