
Basics: Common rust frequently occurs in the northern U.S. in mid to later summer. It rarely reaches levels that cause yield loss in commercial hybrids. It is most problematic during prolonged periods of cool, wet weather. Rust diseases are generally easy to identify by the appearance of brown pustules. The common rust fungus overwinters in the southern U.S. and Mexico. Urediniospores are blown north to the Midwestern Corn Belt in the summer and infection occurs in June or July. Young leaves are most susceptible to infection and pustules are more likely to form after corn silking. The disease favors cool temperatures (60 - 76 degrees F), heavy dews, about six hours of leaf wetness, and relative humidity greater than 95 percent. Temperatures above 80 degrees F suppress disease development and spread.

Symptoms: Common rust produces rust-colored to dark brown, elongated pustules on both leaf surfaces. The pustules contain rust spores (urediniospores) that are cinnamon brown in color. Pustules darken as they age. Leaves, as well as sheaths, can be infected. Under severe conditions leaf chlorosis and death may occur. Common rust can be differentiated from Southern rust by the brown pustules occurring on both top and bottom leaf surfaces with common rust.

Cycle and Lethality: Unlike most other foliar diseases of corn, this rust fungus does not overwinter in crop residue. Spores must be blown northward during the growing season (from mid-June to mid-July) from subtropical and tropical regions where this fungus survives on corn or wood sorrel, the alternate host. Young leaves are generally more susceptible to infection than older leaves. Rust development and spread are favored by prolonged periods of cool temperatures ranging from 60° to 74°F and high relative humidity. Under these conditions, pustules develop on susceptible corn hybrids and sweet corn varieties within 7 days after infection.


Organic Solutions: Common rust usually appears to some degree in the southern United States and the Corn Belt every year. If infection occurs late in the season, the potential for economic yield loss is fairly low. However, if infection occurs at early vegetative growth stages and conditions are favorable for disease development, the potential for economic yield loss increases.

Because corn products differ in their level of tolerance to common rust, the rate of disease development may be different for each product that is grown. Late-planted corn is more likely to have higher levels of infection since it will likely have young, more susceptible leaves during the time when spores first arrive from overwintering locations.

The best management option is growing corn products with higher levels of tolerance to common rust. General plant tolerance reduces the number and size of pustules and the overall severity of infection.


Inorganic Solution: Fungicides can effectively control common rust if initial applications are made while there are only a few pustules present per leaf. Use of fungicides is fairly common in sweet corn and seed corn production, but is rarely warranted in field corn because common rust rarely causes economically damaging yield loss in field corn. Scouting each corn field on a regular schedule will help determine if fungicide applications should be considered. If significant levels of common rust are present on the lower leaves prior to silking and cool, humid, or wet weather is likely to occur a fungicide application may be beneficial.


