
Basics: Typical symptoms of northern corn leaf blight are canoe-shaped lesions 1 inch to 6 inches long. The lesions are initially bordered by gray-green margins. They eventually turn tan colored and may contain dark areas of fungal sporulation. The length or size of lesions may vary with in different corn hybrids reactions with different resistance genes. Lesions begin on the lower leaves and then spread to upper leaves. Severe symptoms can progress rapidly, resulting in blighted leaves. The disease can be confused with symptoms of Goss's leaf blight on some hybrids, and perhaps with Stewarts wilt where this disease occurs.

Symptoms: Typical symptoms of northern corn leaf blight are canoe-shaped lesions 1 inch to 6 inches long. The lesions are initially bordered by gray-green margins. They eventually turn tan colored and may contain dark areas of fungal sporulation. The length or size of lesions may vary with in different corn hybrids reactions with different resistance genes. Lesions begin on the lower leaves and then spread to upper leaves. Severe symptoms can progress rapidly, resulting in blighted leaves. The disease can be confused with symptoms of Goss's leaf blight on some hybrids, and perhaps with Stewarts wilt where this disease occurs.

Cycle and Lethality: The disease is most prevalent during moderate temperatures (64 to 80 degrees F) with prolonged periods of moisture. It typically appears at or after silking, but the disease is usually more severe when infection occurs earlier.
The pathogen is the fungus Exserohilum turcicum (syn. Helminthosporium turcicum). It overwinters on corn leaf debris. Several races of this pathogen are known that interact differently with different resistance genes. NCLB can reduce yield when conditions are favorable
for early development of the disease. Lesions reduce the leaf area of the plant that carries out photosynthesis. The more lesions on a plant and the earlier in the season the lesions develop, the greater the loss of photosynthetic area. If lesions have reached the ear leaf or higher during the two weeks before and after tasseling, yield loss could occur. Hybrid corn yield could be reduced as much as 30 percent if lesions are present prior to or at tasseling. Yield losses in popcorn, sweet corn, or other specialty corn production systems may be greater.




Organic Solutions:  
Because corn products differ in their level of tolerance to common rust, the rate of disease development may be different for each product that is grown. Late-planted corn is more likely to have higher levels of infection since it will likely have young, more susceptible leaves during the time when spores first arrive from overwintering locations.

Production practices that encourage residue to decompose will reduce the amount of fungus present to infect the next corn crop. Continuous corn and no-till or reduced tillage systems are at high risk for disease development due to the amount of residue left on the soil surface.


Inorganic Solution: Fungicides are available for in-season management of NCLB. However, it is important to remember that fungicide applications are an additional cost to corn production, and economic factors (including corn market prices, fungicide application costs, and disease factors), must be considered when deciding whether or not to apply a fungicide for NCLB management. Currently, there are no thresholds specifically for NCLB management to aid in fungicide decisions; however, it is important to prevent yield loss by protecting the ear leaf and the leaves above it as the plant enters the reproductive stages.
