

Basics: Bacterial blight of grapevine is a serious, chronicand systemic disease of grapevine that affects commercially important cultivars. It is caused by the bacterium Xylophilus ampelinus which survives in the vascular tissues of infected plants. Severe infection of susceptible cultivars can lead to a serious reduction in grapevine health and major harvest losses. 


Symptoms:Bacterial blight can affect the leaf, petiole, stem, root, shoot or flowers. Look for key symptoms such as linear reddish-brown streaks that appear and expand upwards on the shoot, darken, crack and develop into cankers. Shoots subsequently wilt, droop and dry up and young shoots may develop pale yellowish-green spots on the lowest internodes. Discolouration is less common on very young shoots, but the whole shoot dies back. Stem cross-section reveals tissue browning. Cankers can also appear on the sides of petioles leading to one-sided (marginal) leaf necrosis. 

Cycle and Lethality:Necrotic leaf spots also occur sometimes and cankers may also appear on flower and fruit stalks. Flowers which have not reached maturity turn black and die back and roots may also be attacked resulting in retardation of shoot growth.

Organic Solutions:  Protectants such as mancozeb and ziram can provide economical early-season control, especially for Phomopsis and black rot, and sulfur may be used for early powdery mildew control in cultivars that are not sulfur-sensitive, Schilder said. An additive, such as a spreader-sticker, may be helpful for ziram, as well as some other fungicides, to improve coverage and retention.

Inorganic Solutions: lime sulfur, sulfur or copper formulations to kill fungal spores that overwinter on the vine. “This is one of the things people don’t always do, but especially if you had a lot of disease the previous year, dormant sprays are a good way to get a head start on the season 


Src:https://vikaspedia.in/agriculture/crop-production/integrated-pest-managment/ipm-for-fruit-crops/ipm-strategies-for-grapes/grapes-diseases-and-symptoms