
Basics: Esca, Botryosphaeria dieback, Eutypa dieback, and Phomopsis dieback make up a complex of "trunk diseases" caused by different wood-infecting fungi. Foliar symptoms may occur at any time during the growing season, but are most prevalent during July and August.

Symptoms:The foliar symptom of Esca is an interveinal "striping". The "stripes", which start out as dark red in red cultivars and yellow in white cultivars, dry and become necrotic. Foliar symptoms may occur at any time during the growing season, but are most prevalent during July and August. They are often restricted to an individual shoot or to shoots originating from the same spur or cane. Symptomatic leaves can dry completely and drop prematurely. On berries, small, round, dark spots each bordered by a brown-purple ring, may occur. These fruit spots, which are better viewed on white cultivars, may appear at any time between fruit set and ripening. In severely affected vines, the berries often crack and dry or are subject to spoilage. Symptomatic fruit is found only on shoots with symptomatic leaves, but you can find shoots with symptomatic leaves and no symptomatic fruit.

Cycle and Lethality:Symptoms first become apparent in vineyards 5 to 7 or more years old, but the infections actually occur in younger vines. The overwintering structures that produce spores (perithecia or pycnidia, depending on the pathogen) are embedded in diseased woody parts of vines. During fall to spring rainfall, spores are released and wounds made by dormant pruning provide infection sites. Wounds may remain susceptible to infection for several weeks after pruning with susceptibility declining over time. After a pruning wound is infected, the pathogen establishes a permanent, localized wood infection, which cannot be eradicated by fungicide applications.

Organic Solutions: Wine grape growers with small vineyards will often have field crews remove infected fruit prior to harvest. Raisins affected by measles will be discarded during harvest or at the packing house, while table grape growers will leave affected fruit on the vine. 

Inorganic Solutions: Sulfur or copper formulations to kill fungal spores that overwinter on the vine. “This is one of the things people don’t always do, but especially if you had a lot of disease the previous year, dormant sprays are a good way to get a head start on the season.

Src: https://www2.ipm.ucanr.edu/agriculture/grape/Esca-Black-Measles/

