

Basics: Late blight is caused by the fungal-like oomycete pathogen Phytophthora infestans. The primary host is potato, but P. infestans also can infect other solanaceous plants, including tomatoes, petunias and hairy nightshade. These infected species can act as source of inoculum to potato.This potentially devastating disease can infect potato foliage and tubers at any stage of crop development.

Symptoms:Late blight infection of tubers is characterized by irregularly shaped, slightly depressed areas that can vary considerably in size and in color from brown to purplish on the skin. These symptoms may be less obvious on russet and red-skinned cultivars. A tan to reddish-brown, dry, granular rot is found under the skin in the discolored areas and extending into the tuber usually less than ½ inch. The extent of the rotting in a tuber depends on the susceptibility of the cultivar, temperature and length of time after the initial infection.

Cycle and Lethality:Spores develop in three to five days and require 12 hours of free moisture for infection to occur. Lesions on leaves and stems become visible as small flecks within a few days after infection.The lesions expand to water-soaked, gray-green areas on the leaf and sporulate if conditions are favorable. The spores are carried by wind and rain to healthy plants, where the disease cycle begins again. A disease cycle can occur every five to seven days, resulting in rapid spread and movement of late blight.


Organic Solutions: Leave the tubers in the soil undisturbed for three weeks. This should kill off any lingering spores, preventing them from infecting the crop when it is lifted, and will also allow the skins of the potatoes to harden.You can also try spraying your plant with compost water.

Inorganic Solutions: Use a seed piece fungicide treatment labeled for control of late blight (current list of fungicides can be found in the North Dakota Field Crop Plant Disease Management Guide, PP622). Recommended seed treatments include Revus, Reason and mancozeb.
Src:https://www.ndsu.edu/agriculture/extension/publications/late-blight-potato