

Basics: In most production areas, early blight occurs annually to some degree. The severity of early blight is dependent upon the frequency of foliar wetness from rain, dew, or irrigation; the nutritional status of the foliage; and cultivar susceptibility.The disease first develops on mature and senescing foliage, and early maturing cultivars are the most susceptible. 

Symptoms:The first symptoms of early blight appear as small, circular or irregular, dark-brown to black spots on the older (lower) leaves.These spots enlarge up to 3/8 inch in diameter and gradually may become angular-shaped.Multiple lesions on the same leaf also may coalesce, or grow together, to form one mass. As lesions coalesce, chlorosis (yellowing of plant tissue) may be visible due to clusters of infection. Elongated, brown to black lesions also may develop on stems and petioles of infected plants. 

Cycle and Lethality:The pathogen favors older and senescing leaf tissue, as well as plants stressed by injury, nutrient deficiency, and insect feeding. The rate of infection in the early season is generally low but increases after flowering and is most rapid during tuber bulking later in the season.Tuber infection is most common in potato cultivars that are highly susceptible to skinning, such as red- and white-skinned cultivars. Secondary spread of infection does not occur on stored potato tubers and, unlike late blight tuber lesions, early blight tuber lesions usually do not serve as infection courts for other decay organisms.

Organic Solutions: As soon as you spot blight, you may be able to save your crop by cutting the foliage and stems down to ground level immediately. This obviously means that the tubers won't get any larger, but it should prevent the fungus travelling down to them. Leave the tubers in the soil undisturbed for three weeks. This should kill off any lingering spores, preventing them from infecting the crop when it is lifted, and will also allow the skins of the potatoes to harden. The potatoes will be edible but use them up as soon as possible – tubers from blighted plants do not store well. Discard any that show any signs of blight.

Inorganic Solutions:Since most commercially acceptable potato cultivars are susceptible to early blight, the application of foliar fungicides is the primary management tactic. Mancozeb and chlorothalonil are perhaps the most frequently used protectant fungicides for early blight management but provide insufficient control under high disease pressure. Therefore, the application of locally systemic and translaminar fungicides often is necessary for control at high levels of disease pressure, especially under irrigation.
 
Src:https://www.ndsu.edu/agriculture/ag-hub/publications/early-blight-potato