

Basics: Leaf scorch is caused by the fungus Diplocarpon earliana. Symptoms of leaf scorch consist of numerous small, irregular, purplish spots or “blotches” that develop on the upper surface of leaves. The centers of the blotches become brownish. Blotches may coalesce until they nearly cover the leaflet, which then appears purplish to reddish to brown.

Symptoms:Strawberries with leaf scorch may first show signs of issue with the development of small purplish blemishes that occur on the topside of leaves. Over time, the spots will continue to grow larger and darken. In severe cases, dark spots may even cover entire portions of strawberry plant leaves and cause them to completely dry and fall from the plant.

Cycle and Lethality:
The fungus overwinters on infected leaves. The fungus produces spore forming structures in the spring on both surfaces of dead leaves. These structures produce spores abundantly in midsummer. In the presence of free water, these spores can germinate and infect the plant within 24 hours. Older and middle-aged leaves are infected more easily than young ones.
Though the foliage of the infected plants is not aesthetically pleasing, it is seldom that the presence of this fungus impacts the quality of the strawberry crop itself.

Organic Solutions:In matted row or perennial strawberry systems, select a planting site with good air drainage and sun exposure. Cultivars resistant to leaf scorch may be available and need to be evaluated for specific horticultural characteristics. Plant new transplants frequently, and allow adequate spacing between them to increase airflow. Control weeds. Avoid amendment with supplemental nitrogen in spring, as this may enhance disease. Keep moisture levels down and avoid long wetness periods by monitoring irrigation schedules; if possible, use drip irrigation rather than overhead. Remove foliage and crop residues after picking or at renovation to remove inoculum and delay disease increase in late summer and fall.
 
Inorganic Solutions:Several fungicides can be used to remove the fungus that causes leaf blight. Make sure you only apply what is necessary as the application of too much fungicide can result in resistant-leaf-blight fungus, which will no longer be killed by the fungicide. Several recommended fungicides for leaf blight include copper, dodine, folpet and captan. Make sure you spray both above and below the plants as the fungicide can only penetrate through the underside of the leaves. Therefore, only spraying above the plants is ineffective.
 
Src:https://content.ces.ncsu.edu/leaf-scorch-of-strawberry