Basics: Target spot of tomato is caused by the fungal pathogen Corynespora cassiicola.1 The disease occurs on field-grown tomatoes in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. Target spot was first observed on tomatoes in the U.S. in Immokalee, Florida in 1967. The disease distribution in the U.S. is limited to the southeastern region, most predominantly in the southern parts of Florida.2,3,4 However, the disease also occurs on tomatoes grown in greenhouse and high tunnel production systems in other areas of North America.5

Target spot infections reduce yield indirectly by reducing the photosynthetic area and directly by reducing the fruit’s marketability through fruit spots. One study documented a 30% reduction in marketable yield and a 43% reduction in extra-large fruit when comparing production from treated and untreated plants. In some untreated plots, two-thirds of the fruit were discarded because of fruit blemishes. The pathogen C. cassiicola has a wide host range, infecting more than 500 species of plants, including cucumber, cotton, soybean, papaya, and several ornamental and weed hosts.


Symptoms: The target spot fungus can infect all above-ground parts of the tomato plant. Plants are most susceptible as seedlings and just before and during fruiting. The initial foliar symptoms are pinpoint-sized, water-soaked spots on the upper leaf surface. The spots develop into small, necrotic lesions that have light brown centers and dark margins. These symptoms may be confused with symptoms of bacterial spot. The lesions increase in size, become circular with gray to pale brown centers. As the lesions enlarge, they can develop darker concentric circles, hence, the name target spot. The concentric circles are similar to those seen on early blight lesions. Yellow halos can form around the lesions on some varieties. Lesions can coalesce, forming large blighted areas on the leaflets, and infected leaves may drop prematurely.

Cycle and Lethality: The target spot pathogen survives between crops on plant debris and alternate host plants, including weed hosts. The fungus produces spores, which are spread by wind and wind-blown and splashing rain. Infection of tomato plants requires high humidity levels, periods of leaf wetness from 16 to 44 hours and temperatures between 60° and 90°F. Optimal disease development occurs at temperatures between 68° and 82°F. Target spot tends to be more severe on plants with lush canopies that dry more slowly. Fruit wounded by hail or blowing sand are predisposed to infection.

Organic Solutions: Cultural practices for target spot management include improving airflow through the canopy by wider plant spacing and avoiding over-fertilizing with nitrogen, which can cause overly lush canopy formation. Pruning suckers and older leaves in the lower canopy can also increase airflow and reduce leaf wetness.Avoid planting tomatoes near old plantings. Inspect seedlings for target spot symptoms before transplanting. Manage weeds, which may serve as alternate hosts, and avoid the use of overhead irrigation. Destroy crop residues shortly after the final harvest, and rotate away from tomato and other known hosts for at least three years. Resistance to target spot is not available in commercial tomato varieties, although partial resistance has been observed in wild species of tomato.

Inorganic Solutions: The primary strategy used to manage target spot on tomato is the regular application of fungicides. Applications should begin before symptoms appear when conditions are favorable for infection and disease development. Fungicides may need to be applied at regular intervals (every 10 to 14 days is common) depending on the label directions of the products used. Full coverage of all plant surfaces is needed for the best control of target spot.

Many fungicides are registered to control of target spot on tomatoes. Growers should consult regional disease management guides for recommended products.10 Products containing chlorothalonil, mancozeb, and copper oxychloride have been shown to provide good control of target spot in research trials. The strobilurin fungicides azoxystrobin and pyraclostrobin, the fungicide boscalid, and the systemic acquired resistance (SAR) elicitor acibenzolar-S-methyl have also been shown to provide good control of target spot.

The labels of many of the fungicides registered for target spot control indicate that the products should be tank-mixed or alternated with fungicides with different modes of action to prevent the development of fungicide-resistant strains of the target spot pathogen

Src: https://www.vegetables.bayer.com/ca/en-ca/resources/agronomic-spotlights/target-spot-of-tomato.html#:~:text=Target%20spot%20of%20tomato%20is,in%20Immokalee%2C%20Florida%20in%201967. 