Basics: Tomato mosaic virus (ToMV) is a plant pathogenic virus. It is found worldwide and affects tomatoes and many other plants.

Symptoms:The foliage of affected tomato plants shows mottling, with alternating yellowish and darker green areas, the latter often appearing thicker and raised giving a blister-like appearance. The leaves tend to be fern-like in appearance with pointed tips and younger leaves may be twisted. The fruit may be distorted, yellow blotches and necrotic spots may occur on both ripe and green fruit and there may be internal browning of the fruit wall. In young plants, the infection reduces the set of fruit and may cause distortions and blemishes. The entire plant may be dwarfed and the flowers discoloured. Environmental conditions influence the symptoms. These include temperature, day length and light intensity as well as the variety, the age of the plant at infection and the virulence of the strain of ToMV.

Cycle and Lethality:The infection is generally restricted to plants that are grown in seedbeds and transplanted as it is in the handling processes that the virus is likely to gain entry. Symptoms on other plant hosts include blistering, chlorosis, curling, distortion, dwarfing and mottling of the leaves.

Organic Solutions: Remove all infected plants and destroy them. Do NOT put them in the compost pile, as the virus may persist in infected plant matter. Burn infected plants or throw them out with the garbage. Monitor the rest of your plants closely, especially those that were located near infected plants.

Inorganic Solutions: Mosaic viruses are mostly spread by insects, especially aphids and leafhoppers. You can try covering your plants with a floating row cover or aluminum foil mulches to prevent these insects from infecting your plants. Control your weeds. Some types may serve as hosts for the disease, and when aphids and other insects feed on these plants, they will spread the viruses to your garden plants.

Src: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomato_mosaic_virus