

Basics: Tomato is the most agriculturally important crop known to be affected by Alternaria linariae, although other members of Solanaceae and members of other plant families (Cucurbitaceae, Scrophulariaceae) can be affected.

The leaves, fruit, and stem may be affected by Alternaria linariae.



Symptoms:Symptoms of early blight can occur on the foliage, fruit, and stem at any stage of development. The disease is more commonly observed in the field, however, seedlings in the greenhouse can be affected by collar rot (also caused by species of Alternaria).

Lesions first develop on lower leaves as small, brownish-black spots which can expand to about 1⁄4 - 1⁄2-inch in diameter with characteristic concentric rings in the darkened area. The area surrounding the lesions may become yellow and, as disease progresses, the entire leaf may turn yellow. In later stages, lesions may appear in the upper leaves and defoliation may occur in the lower part of the plant leaving the fruit susceptible to sunscald.

Fruit may become infected through the calyx around the stem attachment and are susceptible in the green or red stage. Lesions can expand to cover the entire fruit and are typically sunken, leathery, and dark brown to black with concentric rings.

Cycle and Lethality: 
Disease is favored by warm temperatures (>80F) and moderate to heavy rainfall.

The fungus can survive between seasons on crop debris in the soil. Volunteer tomato plants also can be a primary source of inoculum.

Spores of Alternaria linariae are primarily spread by wind, air currents, and water splash. The fungus survives in plant debris in soil and, in milder climates, can survive on volunteer tomato plants.

Organic Solutions:  
Maintain plant vigor. Maintaining adequate fertilization and improving host vigor can reduce susceptibility to early blight.
Remove volunteer weeds. Removing volunteer tomatoes can reduce disease as they can serve as an inoculum source.
Rotate every 2-3 years. Rotating away from tomato can reduce inoculum density in a field.

Inorganic Solutions: In addition to the cultural practices listed above, there are several products that are effective at controlling the disease. In general, apply on a 7-14 day interval except where the label specifies otherwise. For the latest fungicide recommendations for early blight, consult the Handbook for Indian Vegetable Crops
Src: https://content.ces.ncsu.edu/early-blight-of-tomato
