

Basics: Bacterial spot of tomato is a potentially devastating disease that, in severe cases, can lead to unmarketable fruit and even plant death.  Bacterial spot can occur wherever tomatoes are grown, but is found most frequently in warm, wet climates, as well as in greenhouses.  

Symptoms:Spots may initially be yellow-green, but darken to brownish-red as they age.  When the disease is severe, extensive leaf yellowing and leaf loss can also occur. n green fruit, spots are typically small, raised and blister-like, and may have a yellowish halo.  As fruit mature, the spots enlarge (reaching a maximum size of ¼ inch) and turn brown, scabby and rough.  Mature spots may be raised, or sunken with raised edges.Bacterial spot can affect all above ground parts of a tomato plant, including the leaves, stems, and fruit.  Bacterial spot appears on leaves as small (less than ⅛ inch), sometimes water-soaked (i.e., wet-looking) circular areas.

Cycle and Lethality:Xanthomonas euvesicatoria, Xanthomonas gardneri, and Xanthomonas perforans.  These bacterial pathogens can be introduced into a garden on contaminated seed and transplants, which may or may not show symptoms.  The pathogens enter plants through natural openings (e.g., stomates), as well as through wounds.  Disease development is favored by warm (75° to 86°F), wet weather.  Wind-driven rain can contribute to more severe disease as the pathogens are splashed and spread to healthy leaves and fruit.  Bacterial spot pathogens can survive well in tomato debris, but they survive very poorly in soil when not associated with debris.

Organic Solutions: There are no cures for systemically infected plants and these plants should be discarded. Individual leaves with spots can be picked off and destroyed. Any method that will lower the humidity, decrease leaf wetness or increase air circulation will help to lessen the chances of infection.

Inorganic Solutions:Copper-containing bactericides provide partial disease control. Apply at first sign of disease and repeat at 10- to 14-day intervals when warm, moist conditions prevail. Copper is strictly a protectant and must be applied before an infection period occurs
 
Src: https://extension.umd.edu/resource/bacterial-leaf-spots-indoor-plants