Basics: Adult tomato red spider mites are small in size with eight legs. Mites are difficult to see without magnification. Tomato red spider mite may change colour during it's lifecycle. They can vary in colour from light orange to deep orange red or brown (Figure 1).
Female tomato red spider mites are approximately 0.5 mm in size and a broad oval shape. Males are much smaller (0.3 mm), orange to straw coloured and are a more elongated, triangular shape.
Eggs of tomato red spider mites are rounded and deep to pale orange in colour. They are bright and clear when newly laid becoming rust red prior to hatching.
Larvae are light green or pinkish in colour, slightly larger than eggs and have six legs.
Nymphs look similar to adults with eight legs but are smaller and greenish to orange red in colour.



Symptoms:The tomato red spider mite can be found on both sides of leaves but it prefers the undersides near the leaf veins. Feeding causes leaves to become yellowish white and mottled.
Tomato red spider mite produces webbing, especially on the undersides of leaves. In high infestations, dense webbing can mummify plants.

Cycle and Lethality: Tomato red spider mite continuously reproduces throughout the year in warmer climates.Development is favoured by hot dry conditions.
The minimum temperature for growth is 10 °C and the optimum temperature is 34 °C.
At 25 °C, the lifecycle is completed in 13.5 days and the number of eggs laid can vary from approximately 80 eggs at low temperatures to 120–250 eggs at higher temperatures.

Organic Solutions: 
good farm hygiene practice - "Come Clean, Go Clean"
ensure all staff and visitors are instructed in and adhere to your business management hygiene requirements
source propagation material of a known high health status from reputable suppliers
monitor your crop regularly
keep records

Inorganic Solutions:
1.Chemical resistance is a major problem overseas, requiring rotation of miticides
manage weeds especially blackberry nightshade and glossy nightshade
treat, remove or quarantine infested plants to prevent spread


Src:https://www.dpi.nsw.gov.au/biosecurity/plant/insect-pests-and-plant-diseases/Tomato-red-spider-mite#:~:text=The%20tomato%20red%20spider%20mite,dense%20webbing%20can%20mummify%20plants.

